$Id$

OpenDNSSEC 1.1.0 - Known Restrictions

The following are the known problems and/or restrictions of release 1.1.0 of
OpenDNSSEC.


KSK rollover requires manual timing
-----------------------------------

OpenDNSSEC rolls a key-signing key by the double-DS pre-publication method:
the DS record for the new zone is extracted from OpenDNSSEC and sent to the
parent zone. After a period of time, the KSK is changed and, after a further
interval, the DS record for the old KSK is removed from the parent.

The sending of the DS record to the parent zone necessarily involves manual
intervention on your part, but version 1.0.0 of OpenDNSSEC also requires that
you manually time two intervals:

* The time between introducing the new KSK into the zone and sending the DS
  record to the parent.
* Seeing the DS record in the parent zone and informing OpenDNSSEC of its
  presence.

Future versions of the software will remove the need for tracking the time
between these events.

The KSK rollover procedure is described in the OpenDNSSEC documentation.


Key rollover and reuse of signatures
------------------------------------

OpenDNSSEC makes use of reusing previously created signatures. A key that is
in active state will be used for signing. When rolling keys, keys may become
active or inactive. At these points in key rollover, all signatures that
correspond to a previously active key (which just became inactive) need to be
dropped and new signatures for the new, just activated key need to be created
from scratch. OpenDNSSEC cannot handle a smooth transition between these states.


Limitations on Number of Zones
------------------------------

Owing to contention in the key management database, performance is degraded if
OpenDNSSEC is used to sign large numbers of zones that do not share common
keys. The problem is worse if SQLite is used for the key and signature manager
database.

As a workaround, we suggest that either the same key is used for all zones, or
that the number of zones be limited to about 5,000.

This will be addressed in a future release of the software.


Incompatibility in TSIG Key
---------------------------

When setting up a TSIG key for the zone fetcher component, it should be noted
that the SHA algorithm family used by OpenDNSSEC is incompatible with the
BIND-9, due to a problem in the latter's cryptographic library.

The problem is fixed in the upcoming BIND-9.7 release; in the meantime, avoid
using TSIG authentication between the zone fetcher and the upstream
nameserver.


Possible Issue between enforcer and signer
------------------------------------------

We have seen, but only on centOS, an issue where when the enforcer signals the
signer that a signer configuration file has changed the return value indicates
an error. This happens even when the signer is running and has correctly
processed the message.

The result is that the enforcer does not message the signer about any more
changes in that run. So, if any other zones change, they will not be seen
until the next time the signer runs.

If you are affected by this issue then you will see messages like this in your
log: ods-enforcerd: Could not call signer engine ods-enforcerd: Will continue:
call 'ods-signer update' to manually update zones


Issue with sharing keys and adding zones
----------------------------------------

Due to a limitation in the way we keep track of key states, adding zones to a
system that shares keys results in the new zone not getting copies of the 
standby KSKs.
In general when sharing keys the user must be aware that any key will be in the
same state for all zones. 


Issue with rolling from one algorithm to another
------------------------------------------------

The current version will handle key rollovers that also change algorithm just the
same as any other key rollover. This is not sufficient; and so rolling between
algorithms is broken and should not be done with the current system.


Quicksorter does not allow certain owner names
------------------------------------------------

If a RR owner name looks like a directive, for example, \$ORIGIN or $TTLexample, 
the quicksorter filters them away as being incorrect directives.
